There are a few things to keep in mind about stacking:
------------------------------------------------------

1) How we define the 'better' stack (quantitative way)
	Mode? Mean + Median could be used to estimate Mode, for example.
	Mode would be pixel value that appears most often - the sky.
	Calculating mode would define the value of the sky in the cubes.
	
2) Stacking assumes spherical symmetry and so stacking will cause a loss in spatial information
	Do we stack using the centroid of the continuum or the gas?
	These could tell us different things
	Stacking using Ha has not been done before (but it may be too faint)

3) Write the pipeline in a general way. Don't hardcode a particular type of centroid/image so we can interchange gas/continuum. In theory it could be used to stack unrelated images. Also allow for different parameters to do the stacking: mean, median, mode, etc.
	Use Qing's pipeline. Modularize as much as possible. 
	Allow different algorithms to be used on the fly
	Make it !!User Friendly!!


Next Steps:
-----------

1) We could try and align objects based on transverse and radial position before stacking to reach a stronger conclusion
	Determine other ways of figuring out how orientation fits in. This would solve the problem in (2) above.
	Keep this in mind while making the pipeline

Curve of Growth
---------------

We are after two measurements: What is the size of the stellar component vs the ironized gas component (star forming region) in galaxies?
	What is their ratio? What does that say about star formation and ram pressure stripping?
	How do we calculate it?

Take an example:

Half-light radius of a star: How far out do we go from the center before we encompass half of the light?
	Create circular radii around the image. Sum up all of the light within concentric circles to deduce radius of half light.
	Once we stop gaining light - the radius is set. (beyond the background level of light)
	How exactly do we do this? We need an algorithm. We need to fit a formula to the asymptote. We need to know what this approaches.

This same strategy can be used to calculate half-light radius of gas and continuum in galaxies.